Hello and welcome to this Samsung Knox training video on Getting started with Knox Mobile Enrollment Direct.
In this video, we'll explain what Knox Mobile Enrollment Direct is, the different features it offers,
and how it can be used to enroll a large device fleet in an EMM.
Specifically, you'll learn how to install the software, how to create a profile,
how to update or delete a profile, and how to enroll a device.
So, if you're new to the world of Knox Mobile Enrollment Direct, then this video is for you.
Let's get started!
Before you begin, you'll need to have an account atsamsungknox.com.
For more information, check out the video on Getting started with Knox Admin Portal.
A laptop or desktop computer running Windows 10 or higher
to run the Knox Mobile Enrollment Direct PC app.
And, one or more Samsung devices runningAndroid 11 or higher.
Knox Mobile Enrollment Direct, or KME Direct,
is the on-premise version of Knox Mobile Enrollment.
By using a PC app, KME Direct allows IT admins
to easily enroll and set up a large fleet of devices in locally-hosted EMMs.
To start using KME Direct, you must install the KME Direct PC app.
To do so, log into your Samsung Knox account.
and download the app installer ending with .exe, found in Step 1.
Once you run the installer, accept the terms of agreement,
then create a passcode that you’ll need to enter every time you run the app in the future.
Once you finish creating your passcode, you’ll see a unique recovery key on screen.
This key helps you reset your passcode if you forget it in the future.
Copy this key to a secure location on your PC.
Next, copy the Activation request key,
then go back to the KME Direct Download page and paste the key in the dialogue box in Step 2.
This generates the License activation key.
Copy this key, navigate back to your app installer,
and paste it in the License activation key field.
Then, choose where you’d like to install the app, and click Install.
After the installation is complete, launch the app,
then enter your passcode to start using the KME Direct app.
When you log in to the app for the first time,
you’ll see the Global Settings screen that lets you configure the relay server and QR code settings.
The relay server is the internal server where you upload the XML file
containing your settings that the target device will download.
You can either use the built-in relay server
or provide a customizable local server location.
Note that this server will be used any time you create a device configuration profile,
a kind of profile that we’ll look into shortly.
For the purposes of this video, we’ll select the built-in relay server option.
You can also use QR codes to enroll your devices and decide how they’re scanned on your devices.
We’ll select the minimized single QR code with hiding passwords that encrypts passwords in the QR code.
Once done, hit Save and close.
Next, let’s look at how you can create a profile.
Click the Create profile button. KME Direct offers two profile types:
Device configuration profiles let you configure settings related
to your device’s display, sounds, key mapping, and more.
Device deployment profiles helps you enroll devices, install apps,
and push your device configuration profiles during the initial setup.
Let’s take a look at device configuration profiles.
Click on Configuration profile.
Enter a profile name. Then, configure the device’s display settings by selecting
the duration of screen timeout, brightness levels, font size, and touch sensitivity.
For fully managed devices, you can configure key-press settings, that let you set the button order
and resulting actions for key presses on the device.
Then, you can configure some general settings such as Near-field communication,
Wi-Fi blocklist to block devices from connecting to some Wi-Fi SSIDs,
sound settings to selectively control the device’s volume, and the language and location settings.
Next, set the device’s roaming to turn the device roaming on or off and set the Access Point Name configuration.
Note that APN settings are supported only on fully managed devices.
Once done, confirm all your configurations on the Summary page and click Generate XML/QR code.
This generates and uploads an XML file on to the relay server.
This XML file allows the KSP agent to push your settings to the devices.
Note that if you configure a local relay server in your Global Settings,
you’ll have to manually upload this XML file to the local server.
Finally, click Generate QR code to generate or download the QR code for this profile.
Next, let’s deploy these configurations onto a target device.
To do so, let’s create a device deployment profile by clicking
Create profile and selecting Deployment profile.
Enter the profile and organization name.
Then, select Set up Wi-Fi to configure the Wi-Fi network connection policies.
Next, enter any custom legal agreement information,
including privacy policy, EULAs, and terms of service.
Then, configure the Android Enterprise settings. Here, select your EMM provider.
Doing so auto-populates all its information such as the URI where the EMM agent APK is located,
the receiver component name, as well as the signature checksum.
Next, you can optionally provide a customizable server URI for the target device to connect to,
and any custom data in JSON format that is sent to the EMM agent.
Then, select Dual DAR to secure device data through two layers of encryption,
add any root or intermediate certificates,
and select which enrollment screens are displayed during device enrollment,
depending on the Android version of the target device.
Then, you can also configure any additional deployment options as needed.
Note that you can only configure the following settings if you’ve previously set up a Device configuration profile.
Specify the location for the device configuration profile and KSP agent,
then specify the location for the Knox Enrollment Service agent.
Select whether pre-installed system apps are enabled on the target device and available to the profile.
Then, add any apps to deploy on devices
(based on its name, signature checksum, and the app APK URI).
Once done, confirm all your settings and then click Generate QR code button
to generate or download the QR code for this profile
and use it for enrolling devices and pushing the device configurations during the initial phone setup.
To update a profile, click on the profile name,
click on the specific setting you’d like to update, for example Key configuration,
and then click the Edit button at the bottom of the sliding panel.
Once you make your changes, hit Save.
To delete a profile, select a profile on the Profiles page, and click Delete.
This completes the Knox Mobile Enrollment Direct tutorial.
Congratulations! You're now ready to deploy different configurations onto multiple devices at once
and enroll them into your EMMs!
For help at any point, see the KME-Direct documentation at docs.samsungknox.com.
Thank you for watching!